(♪♪)
>> This is one of the movers
that moved me.
>> Tom: This week on
"Marketplace".
The wild bunch.
>> Straight up, they lied.
>> Tom: Our chase car has
them in sight.
Shady movers are riding
roughshod.
>> Should I start unloading.
>> Tom: Holding your stuff for
ransom.
>> I was at their mercy.
>> Oh, look out!
>> Tom: Bashing your things.
Grabbing your cash.
>> I got robbed right in
broad daylight.
>> Tom: We're tracking them on
hidden camera.
Why do you do this to people.
You have to stop, you have
to stop this.
(♪♪)
(Truck beeping)
>> Tom: We're staging a home.
Yeah, that'll work.
But this ain't no extreme
makeover show.
These guys are helping us set
up this house with our props.
We've cameras up, we're
going to put more cameras up.
We've borrowed some furniture
to set-up this house in east
end Toronto.
We're gonna have some other
people come in and we're gonna
see what happens.
A maverick company is on the
way and we're gonna put 'em
to the test.
Bandit movers are acting like
it's the wild west, staging
hold-ups across the land.
With no sheriff to run 'em out
of town, innocent folks are
easy pick'ins.
>> I got robbed right in broad
daylight and the worst thing
is I called them, and had them
come to my house and rob
me.
>> Tom: Shawn Royal had a dust
up with his movers when moving
into his first home.
now he wants to help you dodge
the bullet.
>> I don't want to get hit
with any hidden charges, you
know I've heard stories and he
said nope, that's everything
and I'm like, okay, fantastic.
>> I feel like I've been
robbed.
>> Tom: That's how Mia Solomon
felt when she moved her
business.
>> They said no hidden fees
and there was a lot of hidden
fees.
>> Tom: Both got the same
deal: an hourly rate plus
travel time.
Turns out, the movers were
bluffing.
>> Straight up, they lied.
>> Tom: It's a stickup, and
Mia and Shawn end up paying
way more than they ever
expected.
>> Stop, you know, ambushing
people with extra charges.
>> It was a nightmare.
>> An absolute nightmare.
>> Tom: The outfit behind this
nightmare?
Husky Movers.
>> That's who we're hiring.
They're based in Toronto.
(Phone ringing)
>> Tom: Megan, who works for
us, books our move and gets
this deal.
>> You're looking two guys
with a truck for 45 an hour
and plus there's a one hour
travel time.
>> Okay, and does that include
everything?
>> That's right
>> Tom: Okay, we're in the
game.
We've got a deal, but is
there a trick up their sleeve?
To find out we bring in a
wise old hand.
Hi Jim, how you doing?
Jim Carney's company has been
in the business for a century.
(♪♪)
>> Tom: Welcome to the garage,
or as I like to call it,
mission control.
He's also with the Canadian
Association of Movers.
That'll be your seat.
>> Thank you.
>> Tom: He's fed up with the
likes of companies such as
Husky Movers.
>> There are fly-by-nighters
out there.
>> Tom: We're about to find
out how Husky Movers ambush
their customers.
>> Testing.
Yeah, can you hear me?
>> Tom: Loud and clear, great.
We wire up Megan, our
Marketplace homeowner.
Sheíll wear a camera that
looks like a button on her
shirt.
John, our hidden camera
specialist, will be the friend.
Our cameras are rolling.
(♪♪)
>> Tom: It's 11:00.
They're supposed to be
here now.
>> Tom, they're coming.
>> Tom: As the van pulls up,
its clear this is not your
typical moving company.
Okay, there's your white van.
>> Yep with graffiti on the
side.
>> Tom: Right, no Husky Movers
logos or Husky Movers uniforms.
They're coming to the front
door Meg.
And they're here.
>> HI, I'm Megan.
>> Oh, hi.
I'm Sam.
>> Sam, hi.
>> And I'm Jaskaran.
>> Jaskaran, hello.
>> Tom: Our Marketplace
homeowner explains what
needs to go.
>> The pictures are staying
and everything on the wall
stays.
>> Tom: There's more stuff
upstairs, and some awkward
pieces.
>> And then there's a bedroom.
>> Tom: So we think they're
ready to start the move.
>> Can I have your initials?
>> Tom: When suddenly,
Sam pulls out a new deal.
And you won't believe what he
hits us with.
Let's see what happens here.
>> It will be one-time charge
for the stairs.
>> Oh, that's a surprise.
They didn't mention anything
about that.
>> A charge for the stairs.
>> Tom: Is that normal to charge
for stairs?
>> Absolutely not.
They're getting paid by the
hour, every home has stairs.
>> Tom: No kidding.
Shawn's floored too.
>> Absolutely bogus, man.
I've never heard of a stair
charge.
>> Tom: Despite protesting,
they put it on his bill.
>> Absolutely ridiculous.
>> Tom: Back at our move,
another surprise.
Get a load of this one.
>> And any item over 100
pounds, will be charged.
>> Any item over 100 pounds,
will be charged, which again
is a complete rip-off.
>> They didn't mention any of
this stuff on the phone.
>> Tom: They didn't mention it
to Mia either when she called
to book her move.
>> Husky Movers said no, they
don't charge.
>> Tom: But they charged it
all right.
Our contract now has charges
we weren't told about.
And we're stuck with them.
>> So I just have to sign
this?
>> This is one of the movers
that moved me.
>> Tom: Recognize him?
That's Sam, one of our movers.
>> I signed the contract under
duress.
I felt there was a gun to my
head.
>> Tom: Refusing to sign
means trying to find another
mover, and fast, almost
impossible on moving day.
He's asking to sign a contract
now.
>> Looks like.
>> Tom: Is that normal?
>> No.
She's seeing this contract for
the first time and they're
asking her to sign it.
And she's only seen it for,
like, 20 seconds.
>> Tom: Like most people on
moving day, we sign.
Okay, we're starting the
move now?
Guess again.
>> So is that everything?
>> I need a deposit of $250.
>> Oh really?
'Cause they didn't say
anything about that either.
>> Tom: A $250 deposit?
>> We would never do that on
move day.
We would ask for a 10 percent
deposit but that's well in
advance of the move
taking place.
>> Tom: Jim says there's no
rule book in the moving
business.
But what Husky's doing, he
says, should be outlawed.
No choice.
We hand over the deposit.
>> And they haven't even
touched a piece of furniture
yet.
>> Tom: Right.
When they finally do...
>> Here comes the mattress
with no plastic bags to
protect it.
So now they're just going to
put it in the truck.
So it's gonna get soiled.
(♪♪)
>> Tom: Just how careless are
they?
Ouch.
>> Ooh, boy.
Look at the drawers coming
out of the dresser.
>> Tom: Yikes.
Aye-yie-yie.
Now they have to get that
dresser into the truck.
>> Tom: No ramp.
>> No ramp.
>> Oh, boy.
>> Tom: Whoa, whoa, whoa.
>> Yikes.
>> Tom: How could they do
this?
>> They're stuck now.
Every proper moving truck
should have a ramp.
>> Tom: Not much TLC for the
armoire either.
>> Oh look out, look out!
>> Ton: Whoa, whoa, whoa.
If this was a $5000 antique?
>> If I were the customer
right now, I'd be --
>> Tom: Oh, geez look at this.
>> -- having a cardiac.
>> Tom: It's not even our
furniture and I'm worried.
Mia's heart sure skipped a
beat.
>> I just feel scammed.
>> Tom: When Husky was done,
she estimates three thousand
bucks worth of her stuff
was damaged.
>> How's it looking?
>> A lot of heavy stuff.
>> Tom: A lot of heavy stuff
what does that tell ya?
>> Oh yeah, they're just
padding the bill, that's all
they're doing.
>> Tom: Back at our house,
Husky's bill is about do more
damage.
Remember they're charging for
stairs, but not just here,
at the new place too.
>> How many stairs do you
think it is?
>> I dont know, how would
I know that?
>> Tom: Why can't he just
count them up when he gets
there?
Our expert thinks he knows
why.
It's the old, "we've got all
your stuff, now pay us all
your money" trick.
>> You watch, I bet they hit
her with it at that point and
hold her goods for ransom.
That's what I see transpiring
here right now.
>> Tom: Hold her goods for
ransom, really?
>> Yep.
>> Tom: Meaning what?
>> Meaning they will not
unload until they get the paid
what they're demanding.
>> Tom: Sounds outrageous
right?
Well, it happened to Mia.
>> My stuff would not get off
the truck if i didn't pay.
I felt that my things, my
belongings, that I paid for,
it was held hostage.
>> Tom: In Shawn's case, they
would release it, outside.
>> It 's like putting a gun
to my head.
>> Husky Movers, they were
armed and I was unarmed.
I was at their mercy.
>> Tom: Now we are too.
Sam's armed with the bill.
Okay, here we go.
>> Sorry?
It's $200 for heavy items?
>> Unbelievable.
>> Plus $80 for stairs?
>> Yeah.
>> The total is $570.65?
>> Tom: Wow, 570 bucks!
Based on their quote, Jim says
that's more than double what
we should be paying.
>> I don't think this is fair.
This isn't what i was told
at all.
>> I don't know, why don't you
phone the company directly.
>> Tom: So Megan calls.
>> And now I've just got this
bill for almost $600 with
extra charges for stairs and
heavy items, and I wasn't told
about any of this.
>> Let me see if I can give
you some kind of break here.
Is it possible you can give
her $40 break?
>> Yeah, sure.
If you say so.
>> Tom: Some break, and as Jim
suspected, we've gotta pay now.
>> So it should be before
unloading then.
>> So I have the pay the
balance before unloading?
>> Yeah.
>> Tom: And if we don't pay
for stairs and heavy stuff?
>> You're stuff will be unloaded
at this place.
>> If I don't pay all these
charges, you're just gonna
unload my stuff here?
>> Yeah.
>> Like, back in the house?
>> No, but outside.
>> To have the audacity to
even say that you're going to
unload someone's goods on
their lawn is just
incredulous.
>> It's the company policy.
>> Tom: Time for step two in
our plan.
Megan says they'll get their
money -- at the new place.
>> The stress that I would be
going through right now
if I were the customer,
unbelievable.
>> Tom: Okay, they're leaving.
But wait 'til you see the
surprise we have for them.
>> Should I start unloading.
>> Tom: If you wanna unload
the furniture on the street
you go right ahead.
When we come back.
>> And later, why our vets
investigation left many
of you barking mad?
(♪♪)
>> Tom: Shady moving
Companies are emptying the
pockets of Canadians
across the country.
Okay, they're leaving.
So now we're tailing one
sketchy outfit.
Our chase car has them in
sight.
-- that's stiffed us, and many
people, with hidden charges.
>> We're directly behind them.
>> Tom: Okay.
Even threatened to dump our
furniture if we don't pay
those fees.
Husky Movers have been getting
away with this stuff.
but not today.
So, we're gonna have it out
with them.
What will they do when we turn
the tables and refuse to pay
those extra charges?
They've insisted on not
unloading the furniture until
they're paid.
We're not going to pay them.
We're at our new place.
There's the truck.
Time to lay out the plan to
Megan, our undercover
customer.
The sidewalk in front of the
house is where you need to do
this, okay.
>> Okay.
>> Tom: Will there be a
showdown on the street?
And at a certain point we'll
come out with cameras rolling.
Megan takes a stand.
>> I'm not going to pay
anymore money for these extra
charges that I didn't agree to.
>> You should have told me
earlier, right?
>> Tom: It's a standoff.
Sam is refusing to unload our
stuff.
He gets headquarters back
on the line.
But Husky isn't moving on
the bill.
>> And you initialled that
contract, you signed it and
you agreed to pay for it.
>> I don't want to pay these
charges.
>> Ah, you don't need your
stuff, that's what you're
telling me?
>> Tom: Time for me to make my
move.
>> You told the guys that
you're ok to pay.
>> Tom: Remember, we've
already paid them 250 bucks.
We just don't want to pay for
the charges they never told us
about on the phone.
But as they've done to so
many, Husky puts the gun to
our head.
>> If you're not paying the
money, I have to tell them to
unload your stuff at the
pickup location.
>> Tom: That's right.
They'll bring our furniture
back to the first house and
unload it.
>> Will they put it back in
the house?
>> No, just outside.
>> Tom: My name is Tom
Harrington and I work for
"Marketplace", at CBC.
Okay, and we know what you
guys are up to, and what
your company has been up to.
How can you go into a house on
moving day to do this to
anybody?
>> I don't know, like, if you
want to call the company,
like, we are just the workers.
>> Tom: Put him on speaker.
What kind of operation is this
that you're running?
This isn't a proper moving
company.
>> What you mean, sir?
Everything was explained
to the lady before they touch
her stuff.
>> Tom: What was explained on
the phone, the contract over
the phone, was $45 an hour,
plus an hour for travel time,
everything else is included,
that's what was said on the
phone, that's what she
agreed to.
These fellas come in, hand her
a contract, which she has 30
seconds to read, and can't see
everything in the first place,
then they start saying, oh,
we're going to add for things
like stairs.
>> I think he hung up.
>> Tom: Yup, hung up.
But the mystery man on the
phone is calling the shots.
>> So should I start
unloading?
>> Tom: If you wanna unload
the furniture on the street
you go right ahead.
If that's what you think you
should do.
Is that what he said to do?
>> He said he will take the
legal action against her.
>> Tom: So he's gonna sue her?
Maybe we should sue!
This customer did.
>> And I won, and I feel good.
>> Tom: Just like us, Carol
Lutete-Bayekula got stuck
with hidden charges.
>> This is outrageous.
I was not expecting these
charges.
>> Tom: The judge agreed,
saying that sneaking them into
a last-minute contract was
not fair.
Carol sued City Hawks Movers
and storage.
Guess what?
Same people behind Husky
Movers.
Sam says he's just following
orders, even if it means
dumping the stuff right in
front of our new place.
(♪♪)
>> Tom: I think we'll be dining
under the stars at this point.
If all the dining room
furniture ends up there.
(♪♪)
>> Tom: They've made good
on this threat.
So that's it you're just going
To leave it on the lawn?
>> Yeah.
>> Tom: As for seeing them in
court, not worth our time, so
we pay the entire bill.
We'll keep the receipt.
If we want them to move our
stuff inside, that'll cost
extra.
We're not paying you anymore.
(♪♪)
They get the heck outta Dodge.
But not so fast.
The showdown's not over.
>> They're indicating a left
turn, Tom.
>> Tom: We see him far up ahead.
We follow their truck, because
it's our best lead to the boss.
We end up on the outskirts of
town.
So there's two big Husky
Mover trucks.
And discover a corral of
battered trucks.
Our movers leave but we notice
the Husky brand.
We check back in another day.
There's a Husky Movers
truck right there.
And the Husky name on that
truck is painted over!
Wonder what else they're
covering up?
Time to round up some
answers.
Why do you do this to people?
You have to stop.
You have to stop this.
>> And later, our "Marketplace"
investigation into vet bills
continues.
(♪♪)
>> Tom: We're investigating
a shady moving company that's
more like a moving target.
Husky Movers hit us with
hidden charges, and dumped our
furniture.
We call the owner, Harpreet
Singh, he says they are
upfront about the charges, but
declines to come on camera
saying he's in California.
We're not giving up though.
We're staking out another
moving day.
No trucks today.
They must be very busy.
We hope the trucks will
return.
'Cause when they do...
Our plan is to deliver our own
charges to Husky Movers.
For misleading the public with
hidden charges, threatening to
hold furniture hostage, and
unprofessional service.
We're waiting for another
showdown.
But it's almost sundown.
Will they be a no show?
(♪♪)
>> They are back.
Holy (bleep).
>> Tom: And there's a fancy
black sedan.
We've done our homework.
It's a company car.
Is the owner inside?
Hey, how ya doing?
I'm Tom Harrington from
Marketplace.
>> Okay.
>> Tom: And I'm -- you're with
Husky Movers?
>> No.
>> Tom: Sure you are.
What are you doing in this
parking lot?
>> Just eating chicken here.
>> Tom: Yea, sure.
No, no, you're with Husky
Movers, what's your name?
>> Why?
>> Tom: What's your name?
He won't give us his name,
but we give him our charges.
Here's what I'm going to
give you.
This is our bill, these are
our charges.
This is for misleading people.
Misleading the public.
>> What?
>> Tom: With hidden charges.
>> What are you showing me
this for?
>> Tom: Because this is what
you do to Canadians, man.
>> No, no, no.
Hold it, hold it, hold it.
Stop your camera.
>> Tom: No, answer the question.
Why do you do this to people?
You have to stop,
You have to stop this.
I'll just put this in
your windshield.
He can run but he can't hide.
Later, sources tell us that was
Harpreet Singh, the owner
of Husky Movers.
We leave another copy of our
bill behind to make sure he
gets the message.
But maybe he is already.
Since we started poking
around, Husky Movers charges
for stairs and heavy items are
posted on their web site.
But remember in the wild west
of the moving business, it can
be a treacherous road.
To dodge your own moving
day nightmare, here's our
survival guide.
Watch out for low prices.
You can be hit with hidden
charges later.
Demand a written estimate and
a copy of the contract before
you move.
Get proof they've got insurance
to protect you and your stuff.
Deposits are usually paid
before moving day and do your
homework.
Check out reviews online.
>> Erica: We're back digging
into our investigation into
what you pay at the vet.
Last week "Marketplace" brought
in Marshall, a real watchdog,
to reveal five ways you may be
paying too much at the vet.
By the end, Marshall wracked
up a bill of over $500 in
questionable charges.
And boy did we hear from you.
In one of our strongest
reactions ever.
People coast to coast told us
they could relate to being
overcharged, and are barking
mad.
Can't believe the level of
discrepancies between pet
vets.
The government must step in
and regulate this industry.
As a veterinarian, I found
your program just scratched
the surface.
Veterinarian medicine today is
primarily about making money.
We sure heard from a lot of
vets who disagreed.
Vets didn't go to school for
that many years to rip off
clients.
Are owners aware of how often
vets actually slash costs down
to bare minimums and provide
services free of charge?
(♪♪)
>> Erica: And our investigation
continues.
Across the country, you
pitched in and shared your own
vet bills too.
And what do they reveal?
A range of prices for similar
procedures.
Across Canada for a wellness
exam, you're paying between
$50 and $81.
When it comes to dental
cleaning for cats, prices
ranged from $340 for Scout,
to 654 for Dusty.
As for x-rays, Dexter's owners
spent 143 bucks, while
Dejavu's x-rays cost $257.
At the Canadian Veterinary
Medical Association, here's
what president Jim Berry had
to say.
>> There's a lot of different
factors that roll into costs.
Everything from cost of living,
where you live, if you have
factors like what equipment
is being used so the different
procedures that are being
asked for.
And clients right now,
basically really expect, and
rightly so, I think, to have
really high-quality medicine.
>> Erica: Even so, when it
comes to saving money at
the vet, it might pay to shop
around.
And you can check out our
cross-country comparison
anytime on-line.
Next week on "Marketplace".
>> Erica: Oh, there's that
smell again.
We're back checking in, again.
Testing hotel's promises.
>> Wow, that doesn't look
good, does it.
>> Erica: Oh!!
Look at that!
>> Erica: With your help.
>> I couldn't believe my eyes.
>> Erica: Have dirty hotels
cleaned up their act?
Could this be the same stain
as last year?
>> It's possible.
>> Erica: How much better --
The bath mat looks cleaner --
-- or worse --
-- why hasn't anyone got the
message, you have to clean
the sheets.
-- can things get?